Our tab mapping uses the memory management technique to limit the number of
locations considered as candidates during loop closure detection.
The overall strategy is to keep the most recent and
frequently observed locations and the robots working memory or WM,
and transfer the others into a long-term memory or LTM.
When a new image is acquired,
a new node is created in the Short-Term Memory or STM.
When creating a node,
recall that features are extracted and compared
to the vocabulary to find all of the words in the image,
creating a bag of words for this node.
The STM has a fixed size of S,
and nodes in the STM are not considered during loop closure detection,
because they are generally very similar to one another.
When STM reaches S nodes,
the oldest node is moved to WM to be considered for loop closure detection.
So, the WM is where the loop closure magic happens.
So, what else determines which nodes make it to WM to be considered?
In STM, there is a way to update step.
The heuristic is based on the fact that the robot
should remember areas where it's spent most of its time in.
So the longer the robot is in the location,
the larger the weight of that node.
If two consecutive areas are similar,
the weight of the first node is increased by one,
and no new node is created for the second image.
The compromise made between search time and space is driven
by the environment and the experiences the robot has.
WM size depends on the fixed time limit
t. When the time required to process new data reaches t,
some nodes of the graph are transferred from WM to LTM.
As a result, WM size's kept nearly constant.
Oldest and less weighted nodes in WM are transfered to LTM before others.
So, WM is made up of nodes seen for a longer period of time.
LTM is not used for loop closure dejection and graph optimization.
If loop closure is detected,
neighbors in the LTM of an old node can be transferred back to the WM,
which is a process called retrieval.